---
layout: post
title: Week 6 (February 23-25, 2015)
---

Last Wednesday, we spent a good amount of time on the SAP data case study.  As a result, we didn't discuss the normal linear regression model in class.  Therefore, we will pick up this theme on Monday, discussing the role of normality assumptions in statistical modeling.  These provide an alternative way to quantify uncertainty about parameters and predictions.  Key concepts:  
* the normal distribution as an aggregation of nudges  
* the four assumptions of the normal linear regression model  
* parametric standard errors  
* prediction intervals under the normal linear regression model  

On Wednesday, we will introduce multiple regression.  Key concepts:  
* partial slope  
* evaluating the marginal effect of one predictor while statistically adjusting for the effect of another predictor  
* bootstrapping and normality assumptions within the multiple regression model  



### R skills

The following R walkthroughs will be important for completing this week's exercises.  
* [newspaper circulation](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/newspapers/newspapers.html): using the normal linear regression model to quantify uncertainty about parameters and predictions.   
* [the wage gap](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/salary/salary.html): using multiple regression to assess whether there is a wage gap between men and women with equivalent qualifications.  


### Reading

Read chapter 6 of the course packet on multiple regression and Chapter 4 of Tufte's "Data Analysis for Politics and Policy" (both available through the Resources tab).  Chapter 8 of OpenIntro: Statistics contains a nice treatment of this topic as well, if you are looking for a supplemental reading to round out your understanding of these topics.
 

### Exercises  
[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises06-STA371H.pdf) continue the theme of uncertainty quantification, and give you practice on multiple regression.  The exercises are due on Monday, March 2.  
