---
layout: post
title: Week 1 (January 21, 2015)
---

On the first day of class, we talk briefly about the perils of causal reasoning using data.  Key concepts:  
* confounding  
* dependence graphs  
* blinding and placebos  
* longitudinal and cross-sectional studies  
* natural experiments  

We will also get our feet wet with R, the statistical software we'll use just about every day in this course.


### Software

The first thing to do is to install [R](http://www.r-project.org) and then [RStudio](http://www.rstudio.org) on your own computer.  RStudio is not required, but is highly recommended.  It provides a nice front-end interface to R that makes certain repetitive steps (e.g. loading data) very intuitive.   I will use it in class, so you'll be able to follow along with greater ease if you use it, too.  RStudio will not work unless you install R first.  From the RStudio website, you should download the Desktop version, which is free.

### Readings

All readings are accessible through the Resources tab, above.

* Course packet: Chapter 1.
* Pages 1-18 of Tufte.
* Chapter 1 of Kaplan: mainly useful as an introduction to R.  Feel free to move rapidly if you're feeling comfortable with the software.

The material this week and next also coincides roughly with Chapter 1 of OpenIntro: Statistics.  You should not feel obligated to read this, but it would be a good supplement for anyone looking for additional study materials.

If you are feeling a little uncomfortable with the idea of R, do not worry.  We will practice a lot in class.  But if you'd like, you can get a jump start on things by following along all the R commands in Chapters 1-3 of Kaplan.  Just replicate exactly what he does in your own R session.  (Don't just copy and paste; actually type the commands yourself!  It's the best way to learn them.)  For additional practice, you may also watch and follow along with these videos from the [R Tutorial](http://dist.stat.tamu.edu/pub/rvideos/) website:
1. Libraries and Packages
2. Reading in Files
3. Inputting Data
4. Getting Help in R
5. Saving Work
6. Basic Statistics


### Exercises  
[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises01.pdf) will hone your intuition for assessing the quality of evidence offered in support of a claim about cause and effect.  They will also give you a bit of warm-up for the basic skills required over the rest of the semester (both software skills and math skills).


