---
layout: post
title: Week 11 (April 6-8, 2015)
---

On Monday we will finish the ACL-fest model-building example from last time.  We will then go through the data set on [Mauna Loa atmospheric CO2](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/maunaloa/maunaloa.html) to learn about two important features of many time-series analysis problems: trends and seasonalities.

We will spend the last part of class looking at [daily peak demand for electricity]({{ site.baseurl }}/data/peakdemand.csv) in Raleigh, North Carolina, which comes up on this week's homework.  The variables are:
* Year, Month, DayofMonth: the year, month, and day of the month for the observation  
* PeakDemand: that day's peak demand in megawatts.  
* DailyTemp: [daily average temperature](http://www.weather.gov/climate/local_data.php?wfo=rah) in degrees F.  
* Sat, Sun: indicators for whether the day was a Saturday or Sunday.  


On Wednesday, we will transition to the next major set of topics on probability, risk modeling, and decision analysis.  Topics include:
* Basic probability rules for discrete events  
* Expected value and variance of random variables  
* Addition and multiplication rules  
* Bayes' rule and conditional probability  
* Discrete random variables their probability distributions    


### R skills

Please complete the walkthrough on [Mauna Loa atmospheric CO2](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/maunaloa/maunaloa.html).  


### Reading and exercises  

[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises07-STA371H.pdf) are about logistic regression and time series.  They are due on Tuesday, April 14, 2015.

Chapter 8 of the course packet has a lot of material on time-series analysis. Most of this we are skipping; you need to read pages 167-170 only.  

For next week. please read the _Notes on Probability_ and _Notes on Random Variables_ from the Resources Tab of the website.


