---
layout: post
title: Week 7 (March 2-4, 2015)
---

On Monday we finish up our discussion of multiple regression.  Then we will introduce the idea of a permutation test in the context of the [Titanic, revisited](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/titanic/titanic_permtest.html) walkthrough.  This will review some key concepts from your first statistics class, including:
* test statistic  
* null hypothesis  
* p-value  

This will also involve some new concepts, including:  
* relative risk  
* odds ratios  
* permutation tests in 2x2 contingency tables.   


On Wednesday, we will go over homework 6, discuss important considerations in the model-building process, and apply ideas from hypothesis testing to linear regression models.  Key concepts:  
* t tests in regression    
* permutation tests based on R-squared    
* bootstrapping and normality assumptions within the multiple regression model  



### Reading and exercises  
There are no new exercises for this week.  For reading, please make sure that you review old material from your first statistics course on hypothesis testing, including t tests and p values.  Although there is no "new" reading, this material forms the key background for the material on permutation testing, and your are responsible for it on the mid-term.

If you no longer have your old statistics textbook from that first course and are uncomfortable with these ideas, I suggest Section 4.3 of the OpenIntro: Statistics textbook (pages 172-185), which is downloadable through the resources tab.  I expect that everyone knows the basics hypothesis testing at the level of this section.
