---
layout: post
title: Week1 10 (March 30-31, 2015)
---

On Monday we will build a predictive model for the [sales prices of used cars at auction]({{ site.baseurl }}/data/carauction_train.csv).  Test-set data will be posted at the end of class, with cookies from Tiff's Treats going to the team with the lowest mean-squared error on the test set.  The variable names are:  

* Auction: Auction provider at which the vehicle was purchased.  
* VehYear: The manufacturer's year of the vehicle.  
* VehicleAge: The Years elapsed since the manufacturer's year.  
* Make: Vehicle Manufacturer (e.g. Honda)  
* ModelName: Vehicle Model (e.g. Accord)  
* Color: Vehicle Color.  
* Transmission: Vehicles transmission type (Automatic, Manual).  
* WheelType: The vehicle wheel type description (Alloy, Covers).  
* VehOdo: The vehicles odometer reading.  
* Nationality: The Manufacturer's country.  
* Size: The size category of the vehicle (Compact, SUV, etc.).  
* MMRAcquisitionAuctionCleanPrice: Acquisition price for this vehicle at time of purchase.  
* AUCGUART: The level guarantee provided by auction for the vehicle (Green light - Guaranteed/arbitrable, Yellow Light - caution/issue, red light - sold as is).  
* VNST: State where the car was purchased.  
* IsOnlineSale: Identifies if the vehicle was originally purchased online.  
* WarrantyCost: Warranty price.  


On Wednesday, we will talk about logistic regression.  Key ideas:  
* link function.  
* linear probability model.  
* conditional probability.  



### R skills

Please complete the walkthrough on [college basketball point spreads](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/bball/bball.html), which introduces logistic regression.  


### Reading and exercises  

Please read Chapter 9 of the course packet on modeling binary outcomes.  (Note that we are temporarily skipping Chapter 8.)

Remember that [projects]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/project-STA371H.pdf) are due on Monday, April 5, 2015.  There are no additional exercises this week.  

For reading, please read Chapter 7 of the course packet from pages 157 onwards.  Note that pages 145-156 go over material on hypothesis testing that should be familiar from your first statistics course.  It covers basic ideas such as the alpha level, rejection regions, p values, and so forth.  You should also be familiar with this material, so feel free to use these pages as a review.  Note that this covers the same material as the readings on hypothesis testing from before spring break.  
