---
layout: post
title: Week 9 (March 23-25, 2015)
---

On Monday we tie up a few loose ends regarding multiple regression.  The goal here is to amplify a few points that came up before spring break:  
* collinearity and the ANOVA table in multiple regression.  
* t statistics and t tests.  
* F tests and their connection with permutation tests based on R-squared.  

We will also spend some time going over the mid-term exams.  

On Wednesday, we revisit the idea of cross-validation from an earlier homework and introduce the idea of stepwise selection.  Key ideas:  
* cross validation.  
* Occam's razors: adjusted R-squared and AIC.  
* forward, backward, and stepwise selection.  

We will look at the [Google flu trends walkthrough](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/flu/flu.html), in which we build and check a predictive model using stepwise selection.


### R skills

Please complete the walkthrough on [wage statistics from the Current Population Survey](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/cps/cps.html), which covers ANOVA tables in multiple regression as well as stepwise selection using AIC.


### Reading and exercises  

For the next two weeks, you should be working on your [projects]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/project-STA371H.pdf).  The projects are due on Monday, April 5, 2015.  No exercises until then: the next set of weekly exercises will be assigned on April 5th and due the following week on April 12th.

For reading, please read Chapter 7 of the course packet from pages 157 onwards.  Note that pages 145-156 go over material on hypothesis testing that should be familiar from your first statistics course.  It covers basic ideas such as the alpha level, rejection regions, p values, and so forth.  You should also be familiar with this material, so feel free to use these pages as a review.  Note that this covers the same material as the readings on hypothesis testing from before spring break.
