---
layout: post
title: Week 3 (February 2-4, 2015)
---

### In class

On Monday, we learn the technique of combining and transforming variables to fit more flexible functions to data.  Key concepts:  
* Constructing new variables from existing ones  
* Transforming variables to fit logarithmic, exponential, and power-law relationships  
* Nonlinear curve fitting via polynomial regression  

In class for Monday, we will look at the following examples.   
* [Traffic deaths case study](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/trafficdeaths/trafficdeaths.html).  
* [Infant mortality and GDP](r/infmort/infmort.html): using log transformations to fit power laws via linear least squares   
* [Utility bills versus temperature](r/utilities/utilities.html): adding polynomial terms to fit nonlinear curves  


On Wednesday, we will focus on the prediction uncertainty associated with a linear model. Key concepts:  
* Quantiles and coverage intervals.  
* Naive prediction intervals.  
* The decomposition of variance and R-squared.  
* Sample correlation.  

In class for Wednesday:  
* [Kidney function and aging](r/creatinine/creatinine.html): naive prediction intervals; R^2 and the decomposition of variance   


### Reading

Monday covers the course packet, Chapter 2 (pages 60-70); please also read Tufte, Ex. 6 on page 108.  For Wednesday, read the course packet, Chapter 3; Kaplan, Chapter 4.
 


### Exercises  
[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises03-STA371H.pdf) are about transformations, nonlinear models, and prediction uncertainty.  They are due on Monday, February 9.

