---
layout: post
title: Week 4 (February 9-11, 2015)
---


On Monday, we will continue with the milk-prices case study.  We will then start our treatment of multivariate statistical models (that is, models with more than one predictor). Key concepts:  
* modeling numerical outcomes in terms of multiple categorical predictors  
* main effects and interactions  
* the analysis of variance  


On Wednesday, we will continue our treatment of multivariate models by incorporating categorical variables into regression models for a numerical response versus a single numerical predictor.  Key concepts:  
* aggregation paradoxes   
* dummy variables in regression models as shifts of the intercept  
* interaction terms in regression models as shifts of the slope  


### R skills

We will look at the following R walkthroughs in class.  You should review these outside of class to prepare you for this week's homework.   
* [reaction time in video games](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/rxntime/rxntime.html): modeling numerical outcomes with more than one categorical predictor; dummy variables and interaction terms; analysis of variance.  
* [house prices](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/house/house.html): modeling numerical outcomes with both numerical and categorical predictors.  

In addition, you will find the following walkthroughs necessary for this week's homework.  We will discuss these in class next week:  
* [Gone fishing](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/gonefishing/gonefishing.html): using the Monte Carlo method to simulate the sampling distributions of the sample mean and of the least-squares estimator  
* [Creatinine, revisited](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/creatinine/creatinine_bootstrap.html): bootstrapping the sample mean and the OLS estimator; computing confidence intervals from bootstrapped samples.  


### Reading

This week in class, we will cover Chapter 4 of the course packet.  For your homework, you will find it necessary to read pages 99-111 of Chapter 5.  Pages 108 and 109, on bootstrapped prediction intervals, are optional.  
 

### Supplemental Reading

You will find that Chapter 5 of Kaplan will help you under both the "Gone fishing" walkthrough and the questions on sampling distributions and bootstrapping on your homework.  

Finally, Chapter 3 of Tufte (pages 65-134) contains a treatment of all that we've been covering over the last two weeks: least squares, variable transformations, dummy variables, and so forth.  It is a useful supplement if you feel that your understanding of these concepts isn't as strong as you'd like it to be.  


### Exercises  
[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises04-STA371H.pdf) require you to fit practice fitting some basic multivariate models.  They also require you complete two new R walkthroughs and apply the ideas to new data sets.  The exercises are due on Monday, February 16.

